---
layout: post
title:  "Version 0.1 Released"
date:   2016-03-14 10:03:15
---
I'm very happy to announce today the availability of **Intecture 0.1**. Since my last post in October, a lot has been cooking (no reference to Chef there).

# What's in this update?

1. All the primitive functions have been completed:
    * _Command_ - The primitive you know and love
    * **Directory** - Manage folders
    * **File** - Manage files
    * **Host** - Representation a managed host (no more dealing with ZMQ)
    * **Package** - Install/remove/update/etc... software packages from a variety of providers
    * **Service** - Manage daemons
    * **Telemetry** - Gathers information on a managed host
2. A new installer is available to help you get up and running with Intecture's many repositories automagically - [static.intecture.io/install.sh](https://static.intecture.io/install.sh)

# What's in the next update?

The next update (v0.2) will be focussed on security. A new authentication layer built around [Curve ZMQ](http://curvezmq.org) will encrypt communication between the API and the Agent, protecting tunnels from eavesdropping and connection hijacking. Curve ZMQ also provides user/host mutual authentication based on a public/private certificate model, so you and your managed hosts will be assured of each other's identities.

Apart from that, there are some patches around the Rust FFI that will address opportunities for segfaults, which nobody wants.

Until next time, which I hope won't take another 6 months!

Cheers,

**Pete**<br />
<s>Vice President</s> Junior Vice President, Between Lines Ltd.
