---
layout: post
title:  "Version 0.3 Released"
date:   2016-12-22 17:56:38
---
I'm very happy to announce the availability of **Intecture 0.3**.

## What's in this update?

This is the biggest update in Intecture's very short history. Along with adding the missing features you'd expect to find in any systems management tool, we've also spent a long time squashing bugs, making the FFI much safer and producing binary packages for supported platforms.

Here's a list of highlights:

1. **Stability**  A lot of work has gone into automated testing for Intecture across a variety of platforms, programming languages and respective versions. This has resulted in a huge number of bugs being removed from the code base, and greater assurance in Intecture's stability.
2. **Host bootstrapping**  The CLI can now bootstrap hosts, which means that deploying Intecture across your infrastructure can now be done with a single command.
3. **FFI safety**  The FFI has had a substantial facelift, making it much safer to interact with. Errors are now handled gracefully, using a method best suited to the target language.
4. **File templates**  File templates have been introduced to the API, following the [Mustache standard](https://mustache.github.io).
5. **PHP 7**  Intecture API now has a native binding for PHP 7.
6. **Project data**  You can now keep your project data separate from your code using JSON data files. Thanks to a shiny new JSON lexer/parser, you can also embed filters into your data, making cross-platform coding easier.
7. **Payloads**  You can now split your code into separate _payloads_, making it easier to structure your project. As an added bonus, you can even include payloads written in different languages!
8. **Binary packages**  Throw away your Rust compiler (don't actually) because Intecture now has binaries for CentOS, Debian, Fedora, FreeBSD, MacOS and Ubuntu.
9. **Rust crates**  Hooray! It took us long enough, but we finally published official Rust crates for our many projects, so we can do away with Git dependencies.
10. **Better OS support**  Thanks in large part to CentOS 7 testing, we discovered that our support for `systemd` wasn't very good, so we improved it. We also added support for `iproute2`, which replaces `net-tools` on many newer platforms.

## What's in the next update?

It's hard to say specifically. The focus for the next development cycle will be on turning Intecture into a rock-solid, well documented, well supported product. Specifically, we want to eliminate users' pain points and improve our support infrastructure, including a new CI system and more thorough testing.

If you want to push me for a wish list, here's my top 5:

1. Statically-linked binary packages (who wants dependencies?!)
2. A new CI server written in Rust
3. Dedicated testing infrastructure to test the hundreds of combinations of systems and versions
4. Eliminate some tech debt - redesigning API abstractions, removing Cargo features from API etc.
5. Create tools and frameworks to support community growth

Cheers,

**Pete**
<s>Vice President</s> Junior Vice President, Between Lines Ltd.
